Migration guide for IBMBackend.run (#1214)
Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime: docs/migrate/backend_run_migration_guide.rst

    service = QiskitRuntimeService(channel="ibm_quantum")
    backend = service.backend("ibmq_qasm_simulator")
    transpiled_circuit = transpile(circuit, backend=backend)
    job = backend.run(transpiled_circuit)
    print(job.result())

**Example 2: Execution of backend.run() within a session:**

This section of code is identical in Provider and in Runtime.

.. code-block:: python

    with backend.open_session() as session:
        job1 = backend.run(transpiled_circuit)
        job2 = backend.run(transpiled_circuit)
        print(job1.session_id)
        print(job2.session_id)
    backend.cancel_session()

The Session for ``Primitives`` (``Sampler`` and ``Estimator``) is currently different than
the Session for ``IBMBackend``. Therefore, we cannot run a primitive and a backend
using a single Session.

**Example 3: Primitive Session containing backend.run:**

In this example, ``sampler`` is run within session, but ``backend`` is run independently
of ``session``.

.. code-block:: python

    from qiskit_ibm_runtime import Session, Sampler
    with Session(backend=backend) as session:
        sampler = Sampler(session=session)
        job1 = sampler.run(transpiled_circuit)

>         job2 = backend.run(transpiled_circuit) # runs outside the session

Reviewer: I don't understand what makes job2 run outside the session.  Is it just 'kicked out' of the session because it uses backend.run? Why would it have a session_id (from the print command) if it runs outside the session?

Author: I added an explanation and comments in the code. Please check if they are helpful.

        print(job1.session_id)
        print(job2.session_id)

> **Example 4: Backend Session containing Sampler:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Example 4: Backend session containing Sampler:**
```

In this example, ``backend`` is run within a session, but ``sampler`` is run independently
of ``session``.

.. code-block:: python

    with backend.open_session() as session:
        sampler = Sampler(backend=backend)

>         job1 = sampler.run(transpiled_circuit)  # runs outside the session

Reviewer: Similarly, I don't understand why this runs outside the session.  Is it because it was instantiated with backend.open_session(), so that session just won't accept jobs that don't use backend.run?

Author: See above.

.. _migrate to primitives:

Migration guide: using ``backend.run()`` in ``qiskit_ibm_runtime``
==================================================================

> 

Reviewer: Could you add a short introduction here?  It should explain qiskit_ibm_provider vs qiskit_ibm_runtime and why you need to migrate.

Author: Added. Please have a look.

This guide describes how to migrate code that implemented ``backend.run()``
using Qiskit IBM Provider (the ``qiskit_ibm_provider`` package) to use

> Qiskit IBM Runtime (``qiskit_ibm_runtime`` package).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Qiskit IBM Runtime (the ``qiskit_ibm_runtime`` package).
```

We demonstrate the migration with code examples.

**Example 1: Straightforward execution of backend.run()**

.. code-block:: python

    from qiskit import *
    from qiskit.compiler import transpile, assemble
    circuit = QuantumCircuit(2, 2)
    circuit.h(0)
    circuit.cx(0, 1)
    circuit.measure_all()

> In the Provider, the code is:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Provider, the code is:
```

.. code-block:: python

    from qiskit_ibm_provider import IBMProvider
    provider = IBMProvider()
    backend = provider.get_backend("ibmq_qasm_simulator")
    transpiled_circuit = transpile(circuit, backend=backend)
    job = backend.run(transpiled_circuit)
    print(job.result())

> In Runtime, the code will be:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Runtime, the code is:
```

.. code-block:: python

    from qiskit_ibm_runtime import QiskitRuntimeService
    service = QiskitRuntimeService(channel="ibm_quantum")
    backend = service.backend("ibmq_qasm_simulator")
    transpiled_circuit = transpile(circuit, backend=backend)
    job = backend.run(transpiled_circuit)
    print(job.result())

**Example 2: Execution of backend.run() within a session:**

This section of code is identical in Provider and in Runtime.

.. code-block:: python

    with backend.open_session() as session:
        job1 = backend.run(transpiled_circuit)
        job2 = backend.run(transpiled_circuit)
        print(job1.session_id)
        print(job2.session_id)
    backend.cancel_session()

> The Session for ``Primitives`` (``Sampler`` and ``Estimator``) is currently different than

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using a session with primitives (``Sampler`` and ``Estimator``) is different from using a session 
```

> the Session for ``IBMBackend``. Therefore, we cannot run a primitive and a backend

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in ``IBMBackend``. Therefore, we cannot run a primitive and a backend
```

Reviewer: I don't understand  "...we cannot run a primitive and a backend using a single session". What does it mean to run a backend?

Reviewer: Maybe it should be something like "we cannot run a primitive and use backend.run() within a single session,."

> using a single Session.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
using a single session.
```

> **Example 3: Primitive Session containing backend.run:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Example 3: Primitive session containing backend.run:**
```

    circuit.h(0)
    circuit.cx(0, 1)
    circuit.measure_all()

In Provider, the code is:

.. code-block:: python

    from qiskit_ibm_provider import IBMProvider
    provider = IBMProvider()
    backend = provider.get_backend("ibmq_qasm_simulator")
    transpiled_circuit = transpile(circuit, backend=backend)
    job = backend.run(transpiled_circuit)
    print(job.result())

In Runtime, the code is:

.. code-block:: python

    from qiskit_ibm_runtime import QiskitRuntimeService
    service = QiskitRuntimeService(channel="ibm_quantum")
    backend = service.backend("ibmq_qasm_simulator")
    transpiled_circuit = transpile(circuit, backend=backend)
    job = backend.run(transpiled_circuit)
    print(job.result())

**Example 2: Execution of backend.run() within a session:**

This section of code is identical in Provider and in Runtime.

.. code-block:: python

    with backend.open_session() as session:
        job1 = backend.run(transpiled_circuit)
        job2 = backend.run(transpiled_circuit)
        print(job1.session_id)
        print(job2.session_id)
    backend.cancel_session()

The current implementation of Session is different for ``IBMBackend`` than that of Primitives.

> Therefore, we cannot run a primitive and a backend using a single session. This will be remediated

Reviewer: I know that it's more parallel to compare "sampler" to "backend", but I put "backend.run" because the phrase "run a backend" is just so odd :)

in subsequent releases.

**Example 3: Primitive session containing backend.run:**

In this example, ``sampler`` is run within session, but ``backend`` is run independently
of ``session``.

.. code-block:: python

    from qiskit_ibm_runtime import Session, Sampler
    with Session(backend=backend) as session:
        sampler = Sampler(session=session)
        job1 = sampler.run(transpiled_circuit)
        job2 = backend.run(transpiled_circuit) # runs outside the session
        print(job1.session_id)
        print(job2.session_id)  # is None

**Example 4: Backend session containing Sampler:**

In this example, ``backend`` is run within a session, but ``sampler`` is run independently

> of ``session``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of the session.
```

Migration guide: Migrate ``backend.run()`` from ``qiskit_ibm_provider`` to ``qiskit_ibm_runtime``
=================================================================================================

The Qiskit Runtime interface includes two packages:
Qiskit IBM Provider (the ``qiskit_ibm_provider`` package) and
Qiskit IBM Runtime (the ``qiskit_ibm_runtime`` package). Until now,
Primitives (``Sampler`` and ``Estimator``)
were run in Runtime. Custom circuits that performed their own transpilation and used ``IBMBackend.run()``
were run in Provider.

In this release, we add support for running custom circuits using ``IBMBackend.run()`` in Runtime,
so users can run all programs through Runtime.

> We eventually plan to deprecate Provider.

Reviewer 2: I would leave this note out, as I don't think we've officially announced this yet.

Author: @drew-distefano - Removed the last line. Please have a look.
